So far we've created arrays that have strong values like these.
However a race can contain elements of any type for example.
Let's create another areti with a string element an integer a float a boolean and a null value.
Now if manually specified the keys for these values as we saw in the previous video remember that the
keys are indexes always need to be integers are strings like this.
Let's dump this variable out like that and when we look at this in the browser it looks like this a
5 elements array with a 12 character string an integer of 150 and so on.
You can also assign other variables as a values of an array.
For example let's add a couple of variables at the top like that and put these variables into the array
instead of these values.
When you do that is the value of the variable is placed into the array.
I won't specify the indexes so we don't need to split this onto several lines as it's only schadt Now
when we Voudon this array.
We have a two elements array with the first value being the value of the first variable in integer value
3 and the second value the value of the second variable.
You can mix explicit values and variables however you like.
When you create an array it's very flexible.
If you can put elements of any type into an array then why not another array.
Well you can do exactly that.
This is called a multi dimensional array multi-dimensional arrays are useful for representing tables
of data.
For example let's say we have some data like this.
We have details about three people with their name email address and height.
We can represent each line of the table.
Each person with one Ray.
Like this.
This is an associate of array with the name of the person's attributes as the key and then the value
has the value of the array elements like this.
We can represent the complete table by putting each of these individual arrays into another array like
this.
We could also create the array without creating a variable for each person putting in each array directly
like this.
Although if you have a lot of elements this can start to look confusing.
So how do we access elements of a multidimensional array for one day.
We saw earlier how we use square brackets after the array variable with the index to get the value to
access an element in a two dimensional array simply add another set of square brackets with an index.
For example in our two dimensional array of people data if we want to get alliss email we use two keys.
The first element of the people array is another array with alliss data as we didn't specify the index.
It has an index of zero to this we can add the e-mail index to get Atlas's email address like this.
Let's look at another example in code.
Previously we had an array of simple article titles like this.
Let's change this so that we have an array of articles that have titles and also content.
So now this is an array with three elements each of those is an array with two elements with the indexes
title and content.
Let's use a VAR dump as before to print out this variable like that.
And in the browser it looks like this a bit difficult to see the structure.
So if we right click and choose View page sarce it's easier to see will learn what view sarce means
later on.
So you can see the variable is an array with three elements.
The first element has an automatic index of zero and that in itself is an array with two elements.
The first element has an index of title and a value of first post.
The second element has an index of content and there's a string with the value of.
This is the first post and so on.
Let's access one of these values individually.
If we add the index of one to get the second element then add title to get its title like that.
We get the title of the second article like this.
You can have as many dimensions as you like in an array in p p.
But I've never had a reason to use more than 2.
Ah 3.
And if you need more you might need to redesign how your data is structured.
Dont worry about that too much at the moment though.